[Music]
so Apple's done it they finally
completed their apple silicon transition
they said it would take two years it
took closer to three but now every
single Mac that was running Intel
processors just a few short years ago is
running Apple silicon from the top to
the bottom of their lineup and the very
last one to get it was this one right
here the new Apple silicon Mac Pro and
it got it in a weird way so let's talk
about it so there's a whole lineup of
Max and the bottom of the lineup was the
MacBook Air and the Mac Mini getting M1
and then M2 just this the base smallest
version of Apple silicon on a chip
already a massive improvement over the
Intel machines but then the further up
you go you get the MacBook Pros with M2
Pro this is double the M2 then the M2
Max is again double the M2 Pro and at
the top of the lineup is the new King of
the Hill most powerful chip they make in
the new Max studio which is called the
M2 Ultra which again double levels up
the M2 Max literally I mean it's two M2
Maxes fused together this ship is
absurdly impressive which shouldn't be a
surprise I mean the M1 Ultra was already
awesome and it's what I've been editing
on for basically the past year it's been
out but M2 Ultra is actually
meaningfully better at a lot of stuff
than that one it's a solid 15 to 20
faster on single core performance which
is already excellent taking it to the
highest Mark of any Mac ever and it also
benchmarked 15 to 20 faster in
multi-core CPU performance again making
it the fastest Mac ever tested it got
better scores in everything across the
board geekbench metal scores are up by
20 in the GPU department now that it has
this new 76 core GPU which is the one
I'm testing and there are even certain
software optimizations that improve
workflows even more than expected so the
New Media engine is a good one where it
would typically Excel mainly at parallel
workloads like that's why you'd always
see them talking about 22 8K prores
videos at the same time or whatever it
was but it can now also Point all of its
core is at a single workload for those
of us doing back-to-back exports instead
of parallel exports so the export time
for a sample project I built with five
minute prores video went down from a
ridiculous one minute 45 seconds all the
way down to a hilariously fast 57
seconds which is something like an 80
Improvement it's amazing M2 Ultra is
truly excellent so then the Mac Pro
would be the last Mac to get the Apple
silicon upgrade and when it finally did
look a lot of us Hardware nerds were
getting really excited about maybe
something like a M2 extreme which would
once again double the M2 Ultra chip by
fusing two together and being just
something Mammoth and absurd
but it didn't
it didn't it's actually the exact same
M2 Ultra chip in both the Mac Studio and
the new Mac Pro so the natural question
that this begs is why would anyone buy
the new Mac Pro like why would anyone in
their right mind spend 3 000 more
dollars on a machine that gives you the
exact same performance from the exact
same chip in a much bigger heavier
machine well I'll tell you why because I
am one of them one of the few I'll warn
you but one of the few people that will
actually take advantage of some unique
things about this new Mac Pro but the
fact is yeah most people shouldn't and
won't get the new Mac Pro because the
Mac Studio exists so what's the reason
well there are some smaller details that
are potentially interesting about the
new Mac Pro like for example okay it's
the same chip in each but hang on a
second they're dramatically different
sizes so maybe the Mac Pro in a much
bigger chassis with three gigantic fans
at the front and way more space for
airflow surely there's a slight thermal
advantage to getting the Mac Pro or
maybe more sustained performance over a
longer time before throttling and
technically yes I found that to be
slightly True by only like a single
digit percentage in most cases and often
by a rounding error but I did do the
cinebench 10 minute stress test back to
back three times each on the Mac Pro and
the Mac Studio and while the Mac Studio
dropped a tiny bit on the second run and
the Mac Pro technically increased
slightly with each run suggesting it
wasn't near its limit yet it wasn't
really that dramatic like I've seen some
people get maybe closer to eight to ten
percent out of their tests but it's not
enough to spend three thousand more
dollars for more performance out of this
machine put it that way but another
thing is there is more i o on the Mac
Pro technically I mean it doesn't have
the SD card slot on the front
unfortunately which is one of the most
important ones but it does have a new
card at the top here with six
Thunderbolt ports and two more at the
front so totaling eight which is two
more than the Mac Studio and it also has
has two HDMI 2.1 ports instead of one
and two ethernet ports instead of one so
technically true yes but also you
wouldn't spend three thousand dollars
more on the Mac Pro just for that I
think people would get dongles for one
extra Port but no the real difference
the reason the Mac Pro exists is PCI
slots like that's that's really it like
the next time you see a comment or a
tweet or something of someone going why
does the Mac Pro even exist when you can
get the same computer in a Mac Studio is
because this one has PCI slots that's
the real reason the Mac Pro has six open
PCI expansion slots that the Mac Studio
does not have five of them PCI Gen 4 the
last one a compatibility slot it's kind
of funny how empty it looks when you get
it like you open this computer up and
the entire thing is just air the M2
Ultra is just under this cooler at the
top the CPU GPU shared memory the media
engine neural engine everything is just
under there and then there's just an
expansive room for all these PCI slots
and these PCI slots aren't even for
video cards or gpus at all actually
because as we know the GPU which has 192
up to 192 gigs of shared memory is built
into the Apple silicon chip so really
all we're getting the PCI slots for is
expansion slots the pure dedicated
expansion slots that a lot of Pros in
certain industries use a lot sound cards
i o cards storage cards networking cards
that's it so yeah it is really specific
and it will sound ridiculous to most
people that it literally doesn't support
video cards like you could pull a crazy
AMD Radeon card out of the Old Mac Pro
right now and put it into this thing and
basically nothing would happen but also
at the same time most of the buyers of
these Mac Pros are you know Production
Studios post Houses music studios things
like that those people already had
desktops with PCI slots and they
literally could not make a Mac work
unless they made one with PCI slots so
that's who Mac Pro is for it really is
too bad though that technically this Mac
Pro will be less versatile than the old
one because there are people who would
want to throw powerful GPU cores at
certain applications whether it's after
effects or some 3D modeling stuff or
Premiere even that just can't do that
with this one it also doesn't work with
or apparently even need the old After
Burner carts so I don't know if you
remember the afterburner cards and the
old Mac Pro were basically these
dedicated cars a two thousand dollar
video accelerator card uh but apparently
the M2 Ultra has enough power that it's
the equivalent of like seven afterburner
cards so that right there is the real
power of Apple silicon if you're
shooting prores but the more I think
about it just so much of this Pro
machine stuff is specific to workflows
and it's it's very difficult to build
one computer with no expansion or
upgrade ability or modularity at all
that works with everyone's workflows so
there did need to exist a Mac that could
accommodate some more interesting
workflows but like I don't shoot prores
I shoot r3d so I'm not going to need the
exact machine that's built super well
for Pro for me it's actually storage uh
right here I'm holding owc's 8m2 PCI SSD
this is basically a PCI expansion card
with a bunch of nvme ssds on it so the
max storage you can get built into the
Mac Pro is eight terabytes and it's
pretty fast it's six seven thousand
megabytes per second read write cool
uh but you can max out one of these
cards at 64 terabytes and it will read
right at 25
000 megabytes per second
which is absurd uh so that's a totally
different level this is what I'm going
to dump footage on this is what I'm
going to back up to this is going to
replace my current external Thunderbolt
backup which is where I was keeping all
my old footage it was sitting next to
the Mac Studio plugged in and I'll still
have plenty of room left over to work on
and edit multiple video projects off of
it at the same time it's going to be
awesome for what I do and I only need
one but also I fully acknowledge and you
should all realize that most people
don't need those specialized ssds that's
why it looks crazy that this Mac Pro
exists just on the website next to all
the rest of the Macs but most people
should get this one Mac Studio is kind
of a revelation for Apple it's offering
their top of the lineup performance for
way less than the old top of the lineup
and that's why most people should end up
getting that one I do have one last
thing though
I have a theory
if if I know anything about Apple it's
that you can sort of predict the future
pretty well based on the past
and this Mac Pro
is a pretty classic lazy refresh from
Apple
pretty similar to what they've already
done like look at the MacBook Air when
they first went from the last Intel
MacBook Air to the first Apple silicon
MacBook Air they reused the exact same
design and just moved the new chip on
the inside for all the performance gains
then the second generation of it got the
redesign same thing with the MacBook Pro
right they took the MacBook Pro with the
touch bar and just reused the same
design new chip and then the next
Generation got a redesign so now this
Mac Pro has just done the same first
half of that transformation it's the
same exact chassis more or less as the
Intel Mac Pro
but I can expect the Next Generation now
I'm already thinking about the M3 and
that's probably kind of unhealthy but
that's that's where my mind goes that's
just my theory so anyway now you know
why the macro exists now you know why
I'll have one on my desk and I'll also
leave you with this there was no other
place to put it in the review but I did
realize that this Mac Pro does something
kind of weird when you take the top
halfway off when it's still plugged in
the old one didn't do it so I'm just
going to leave you to it thanks for
watching
catch you guys in the next one
peace
[Music]